---
layout: post
title: About Me
subtitle: About the Author
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [Art of Data]
---
# My CS Experience
In my freshman year of high school, I took my first computer science course, Introduction to Computer Science, which taught me certain fundamental lessons and ideas regarding computer science. After a year off from computer science at school, I enrolled in the Wharton Moneyball Academy, a summer program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania that introduced me to statistics and data science in R through the lens of sports. That summer program inspired me to pursue computer science, specifically pertaining to data science, further in school. I took Computer Science 2 in my junior year of high school, and I really enjoyed learning the subject beyond some of the fundamentals. Because I was able to build a foundation in computer science in that course, I knew that I would be extremely interested in taking Art of Data in my senior year. Before I began studying data science in Art of Data, I sought to build on what I had learned about data science at the Wharton Moneyball Academy by enrolling in Introduction to Quantitative Methods, a summer course at Harvard University. This course is the only true statistics course in which I have enrolled. Altogether, my overall experience in computer science and in data science specifically has brought out my passion in the subject, which I now can study by taking Art of Data. Additionally, this year, I currently am taking AP Calculus BC Honors and Math Seminar.

# Something I Like
Since I was four years of age, I always have been passionate about playing the violin. As I have matured as a person and a student, I have found that the vast majority of my interests revolve around forms of analysis. In other words, I have learned to live my life through a primarily analytical lens. Thus, the violin is extremely important to me because it allows me to broaden my horizons into a more artistic sphere. Playing solo, in small ensembles, and in orchestras, I have learned so many valuable life lessons as I have reached to achieve goals that initially may have seemed too ambitious. Most importantly, I have had the wonderful opportunity to grow up in a musical household, as well as around musical peers in [HarMonia Ensemble](https://www.summeronthehill.org/harmonia-concert-2020), and to learn from world-class musicians at various points in my musical career. Although my primary interest lies in statistcs, I am eager to see my musical career grow as I enter college and beyond.

../assets/img/violinreal.png

# Something I'm Looking Forward To
This year, I am extremely enthusiastic about taking courses about which I am most passionate. In college and beyond, I plan to focus primarily on S.T.E.M. courses, and my courses this year present a similar experience. During the school week, I begin my day with Art of Data, my two math courses, and AP Physics, and I look forward to each of these courses more than anything else. Each course presents a new opportunity to engage in critical thinking in S.T.E.M. subjects with my peers who also are passionate in the same subject. This opportunity creates an inspirational and eye-opening learning environment, one in which I can grow and progress as a student and as a human in general. I can't wait to see what the future has in store for me in these courses as the year progresses and to see what my senior year of high school presents academically.